"I Have a Dream" is a public speech that was delivered by American civil rights activist and Baptist minister Martin Luther King Jr. during the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom on August 28, 1963.[2]
In the speech, King called for civil and economic rights and an end to legalized racism in the United States. 
Delivered to over 250,000 civil rights supporters from the steps of the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, D.C., the speech was one of the most famous moments of the civil rights movement and among the most iconic speeches in American history.
[3][4]

Beginning with a reference to the Emancipation Proclamation, which declared millions of slaves free in 1863,[5] King said: "one hundred years later, the Negro still is not free".
[6] Toward the end of the speech, King departed from his prepared text for an improvised peroration on the theme "I have a dream". 
In the church spirit, Mahalia Jackson lent her support from her seat behind him, shouting, "Tell 'em about the dream, Martin!" just before he began his most famous segment of the speech. 
Taylor Branch writes that King later said he grasped at the "first run of oratory" that came to him, not knowing if Jackson's words ever reached him.
[7] Jon Meacham writes that, "With a single phrase, King joined Jefferson and Lincoln in the ranks of men who've shaped modern America".[8] The speech was ranked the top American speech of the 20th century in a 1999 poll of scholars of public address.
[9] The speech was described by journalist Sean O'Grady in The Independent as having "a strong claim to be the greatest in the English language of all time".[10]

The March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom was partly intended to demonstrate mass support for the civil rights legislation proposed by President John F. Kennedy in June. 
Martin Luther King and other leaders, therefore, agreed to keep their speeches calm to avoid provoking the civil disobedience which had become the hallmark of the civil rights movement.
King originally designed his speech as a homage to Abraham Lincoln's Gettysburg Address, timed to correspond with the centennial of the Emancipation Proclamation.[11]

Speech title and the writing process
King had been preaching about dreams since 1960, when he gave a speech to the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) called "The Negro and the American Dream". 
This speech discusses the gap between the American dream and reality, saying that overt white supremacists have violated the dream, and that "our federal government has also scarred the 
dream through its apathy and hypocrisy, its betrayal of the cause of justice". King suggests that "It may well be that the Negro is God's instrument to save the soul of America."[12][13] 
In 1961, he spoke of the civil rights movement and student activists' "dream" of equality—"the American Dream ... a dream as yet unfulfilled"—in several national speeches and statements and took "the dream" as the centerpiece for these speeches.[14]

The March on Washington Speech, known as "I Have a Dream Speech", has been shown to have had several versions, written at several different
times.[25] It has no single version draft, but is an amalgamation of several drafts, and was originally called "Normalcy, Never Again".
Little of this, and another "Normalcy Speech", ended up in the final draft. A draft of "Normalcy, Never Again" is housed in the Morehouse 
College Martin Luther King Jr. Collection of the Robert W. Woodruff Library, Atlanta University Center and Morehouse College.[26]
The focus on "I have a dream" comes through the speech's delivery. Toward the end of its delivery, King departed from his prepared remarks
and started "preaching" improvisationally, punctuating his points with "I have a dream." In the church spirit, Mahalia Jackson lent her 
support from her seat behind him, shouting, "Tell 'em about the dream, Martin!" just before he began his most famous segment of the speech. Taylor Branch writes that King later said 
he grasped at the "first run of oratory" that came to him, not knowing if Jackson's words ever reached him.[7]

Widely hailed as a masterpiece of rhetoric, King's speech invokes pivotal documents in American history, including the Declaration of Independence, 
the Emancipation Proclamation, and the United States Constitution. Early in his speech, King alludes to Abraham Lincoln's Gettysburg Address by saying:
"Five score years ago ...". 

In reference to the abolition of slavery articulated in the Emancipation Proclamation, King says: "It came as a joyous daybreak to end the long night of their captivity." Anaphora (i.e., the repetition of a phrase at the beginning of sentences) is employed throughout the speech. 
Early in his speech, King urges his audience to seize the moment; "Now is the time" is repeated three times in the sixth paragraph. The most widely cited example of anaphora is found in the often quoted phrase "I have a dream", which is repeated eight times as King paints a picture of an integrated and unified America for his audience.
Other occasions include "One hundred years later", "We can never be satisfied", "With this faith", "Let freedom ring", and "free at last". King was the sixteenth out of eighteen people to speak that day, according to the official program.[30]

Among the most quoted lines of the speech are "I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character. I have a dream today!"[31]

According to US representative John Lewis, who also spoke that day as the president of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, "Dr. King had the power, the ability, and the capacity to transform those steps on the Lincoln Memorial into a monumental area that will forever be recognized.
By speaking the way he did, he educated, he inspired, he informed not just the people there, but people throughout America and unborn generations."[32]
The ideas in the speech reflect King's social experiences of ethnocentric abuse, mistreatment, and exploitation of black people.[33] The speech draws upon appeals to America's myths as a nation founded to provide freedom and justice to all people, and then reinforces and transcends those secular mythologies 
by placing them within a spiritual context by arguing that racial justice is also in accord with God's will. 
Thus, the rhetoric of the speech provides redemption to America for its racial sins.
[34] King describes the promises made by America as a "promissory note" on which America has defaulted. He says that "America has given the Negro people a bad check", but that "we've come to cash this check" by marching in Washington, D.C.
King's speech used words and ideas from his own speeches and other texts. For years, he had spoken about dreams, quoted from Samuel Francis Smith's popular patriotic hymn "America (My Country, 'Tis of Thee)", and referred extensively to the Bible. The idea of constitutional rights as an "unfulfilled promise" was suggested by Clarence Jones.[12]

The final passage from King's speech closely resembles Archibald Carey Jr.'s address to the 1952 Republican National Convention: both speeches end with a recitation of the first verse of "America", and the speeches share the name of one of several mountains from which both exhort "let freedom ring".[12][35]

King is said to have used portions of SNCC activist Prathia Hall's speech at the site of Mount Olive Baptist, a burned-down African-American church in Terrell County, Georgia, in September 1962, in which she used the repeated phrase "I have a dream".
[36] The church burned down after it was used for voter registration meetings.[37]

The speech in the cadences of a sermon is infused with allusions to biblical verses, including Isaiah 40:4–5 ("I have a dream that every valley shall be exalted ..."[38]) and Amos 5:24 ("But let justice roll down like water ..."[39]).[2] The end of the speech alludes to Galatians 3:28: 
"There is no longer Jew or Greek, there is no longer slave or free, there is no longer male and female; for all of you are one in Christ Jesus".
[40] He also alludes to the opening lines of Shakespeare's Richard III ("Now is the winter of our discontent / Made glorious summer ...")
when he remarks that "this sweltering summer of the Negro's legitimate discontent will not pass until there is an invigorating autumn ..."[41]




